---
title: "CodeBook.md"
output: html_document
---
## Description

The dataset presented in the file 'tidyUCI&#20F;HAR.txt' is a distillation of some files from the zip archive 'getdata&#20F;projectfiles&#20F;UCI HAR Dataset.zip'. There are several files containing raw data from the experiments and two datasets ("training" and "test") that consist of values derrived from the raw data. The training and test datasets are structurally identical and vary only in the number of rows and the specific values stored in each. 

The run_analysis.R script ignores the raw data and operates only on the training and test datasets.

The original README.txt file describes a dataset with 561 obersvations per row, and describes the data this way:

```
Feature Selection 
=================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation
mad(): Median absolute deviation 
max(): Largest value in array
min(): Smallest value in array
sma(): Signal magnitude area
energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 
iqr(): Interquartile range 
entropy(): Signal entropy
arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4 
correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals
maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude
meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency
skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal 
kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 
bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.
angle(): Angle between to vectors.

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

gravityMean
tBodyAccMean
tBodyAccJerkMean
tBodyGyroMean
tBodyGyroJerkMean

The complete list of variables of each feature vector is available in 'features.txt'
```

The data generated by the run_analysis.R script presents, for each subject and each activity by that subject,  a summary of the mean for each of the features in the original dataset that contained either a mean or standard deviation value (ie variables that included "mean()" or "std()" in their names, but not "meanFreq()" ). Other values are discarded.

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are:

This dataset was distilled from files in the getdata_projectfiles_UCI HAR Dataset.zip file.  In addition to descriptive information, the 

Since there are six activities and thirty subjects, there are 180 rows to the resultant dataset. 

The variables listed in this table appear in the same order as the columns of the data.  

Time domain acceleration measurements are in gravitational units (g).
Time domain gyroscopic measurements are in radians/sec. 

## Variables present
Variable Name  | Units | Description
---------------|-------|-----------------------------
subject        | int | The subject number, from 1-30
activity | NA | A textual description of the subjects' activity, mapped from the file 'activity&#2F;labels.txt': 1=WALKING, 2=WALKING_UPSTAIRS, 3=WALKING&#2F;DOWNSTAIRS, 4=SITTING, 5=STANDING, 6=LAYING
tBodyAcc.mean.X | (g) | Mean of calculated X axis accelerometer values from subjects body, for one subject and activity)
tBodyAcc.mean.Y | (g) | Mean of calculated Y axis accelerometer values from subjects body, for one subject and activity)
tBodyAcc.mean.Z | (g) | Mean of calculated Z axis accelerometer values from subjects body, for one subject and activity)
tBodyAcc.std.X | (g) | Standard Deviation of calculated X axis accelerometer values from subjects body, for one subject and activity)
tBodyAcc.std.Y | (g) | Standard Deviation of calculated Y axis accelerometer values from subjects body, for one subject and activity)
tBodyAcc.std.Z | (g) | Standard Deviation of calculated Z axis accelerometer values from subjects body, for one subject and activity)
tGravityAcc.mean.X | (g) | Mean of calculated X axis accelerometer values from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tGravityAcc.mean.Y | (g) | Mean of calculated Y axis accelerometer values from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tGravityAcc.mean.Z | (g) | Mean of calculated Z axis accelerometer values from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tGravityAcc.std.X | (g) | Standard Deviation of calculated X axis accelerometer values from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tGravityAcc.std.Y | (g) | Standard Deviation of calculated Y axis accelerometer values from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tGravityAcc.std.Z | (g) | Standard Deviation of calculated Z axis accelerometer values from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerk.mean.X | NA^1^ | Mean of calculated X axis accelerometer jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerk.mean.Y | NA^1^ | Mean of calculated Y axis accelerometer jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerk.mean.Z | NA^1^ | Mean of calculated Z axis accelerometer jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerk.std.X | NA^1^ | Standard Deviation of calculated X axis accelerometer jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerk.std.Y | NA^1^ | Standard Deviation of calculated Y axis accelerometer jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerk.std.Z | NA^1^ | Standard Deviation of calculated Z axis accelerometer jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyro.mean.X | rad/sec | Mean of calculated X axis gyroscopic values from subject's body, given subject and activity).
tBodyGyro.mean.Y | rad/sec | Mean of calculated Y axis gyroscopic values from subject's body, given subject and activity).
tBodyGyro.mean.Z | rad/sec | Mean of calculated Z axis gyroscopic values from subject's body, given subject and activity).
tBodyGyro.std.X | rad/sec | Standard Deviation of calculated X axis gyroscopic values from subject's body, given subject and activity).
tBodyGyro.std.Y | rad/sec | Standard Deviation of calculated Y axis gyroscopic values from subject's body, given subject and activity).
tBodyGyro.std.Z | rad/sec | Standard Deviation of calculated Z axis gyroscopic values from subject's body, given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.X | NA^2^ | Mean of calculated X axis gyroscopic jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Y | NA^2^ | Mean of calculated Y axis gyroscopic jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Z | NA^2^ | Mean of calculated Z axis gyroscopic jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerk.std.X | NA^2^ | Standard Deviation of calculated X axis gyroscopic jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerk.std.Y | NA^2^ | Standard Deviation of calculated Y axis gyroscopic jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerk.std.Z | NA^2^ | Standard Deviation of calculated Z axis gyroscopic jerk values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccMag.mean | (g) | Mean of accelerometer magnitude from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccMag.std | (g) | Standard Deviation of accelerometer magnitude from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tGravityAccMag.mean | (g) | Mean of accelerometer magnitude from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tGravityAccMag.std | (g) | Standard Deviation of accelerometer magnitude from gravity, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerkMag.mean | NA^1^ | Mean of accelerometer magnitude jerk from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyAccJerkMag.std | NA^1^ | Standard Deviation of accelerometer magnitude jerk from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroMag.mean | rad/sec | Mean of gyroscopic magnitude values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroMag.std | rad/sec | Standard Deviation of gyroscopic magnitude values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean | NA^2^ | Mean of gyroscopic magnitude values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).
tBodyGyroJerkMag.std | NA^2^ | Standard Deviation of gyroscopic magnitude values from subject's body, for the given subject and activity).

Notes:

(g) - As described in the original README.txt, '(g)' represents "standard gravitational units". 

NA^1^ - The units for Acceleration Jerk are not specified in the original dataset, but would likely be g/sec

NA^2^ - The units for Gyroscopic Jerk are not specified in the oritinal dataset, but would likely be rad/sec^2

This codebook explains R Markdown document. Markdown is a simple formatting syntax for authoring HTML, PDF, and MS Word documents. For more details on using R Markdown see <http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com>.

When you click the **Knit** button a document will be generated that includes both content as well as the output of any embedded R code chunks within the document. You can embed an R code chunk like this:

```{r}
summary(cars)
```

You can also embed plots, for example:

```{r, echo=FALSE}
plot(cars)
```

Note that the `echo = FALSE` parameter was added to the code chunk to prevent printing of the R code that generated the plot.
